
	W E B D A R

"Being able to backup is good. Being able to restore is essential."

       ---

Many backup tool are pretty, with nice graphical user interfaces,
databases to hold and sort files, etc. But many of them are not
taking restoration much into account.

This may lead you not being able to restore your backup,
or at best not without first rebuilding a whole operating system in
order to install on it the pretty graphical tool that will let you
proceed to restoration... but restoring where? On the current live
system? Doing that way sound a bit absurd, complex and/or hazardous.

Webdar has been designed taking first into account the restoration step.
For that reason:
 - it uses no complex graphical user interface but rather a Web interface,
   which can be used usable remotely from the host where webdar is running
   or from a live CD/DVD/USB key for example.
 - it uses no complex database
 - it is available as a single autonomous binary file (statically compiled)
 - it relies on a proven robust, portable, full featured backup/restoration
   tool: libdar
 - it is simple to use, compatible with any browser respecting the HTTP
   standard, it does not make use of web scripting that are an important
   source of security breach today.

Webdar is able to take place in a bootable read-only system (like a CD/DVD),
in order to restore your data into a newly formated partition or into several
newly formated partitions if you like, whatever was the original layout of
your system.

If your hard disk crashed after ten years of good services
you will not buy as replacement a disk having the same size. First, such
model will most probably no more be saled, and second, if you buy
a disk ten times larger, you won't want to use only a tenth of its size
to simulate the size or the original disk, because your backup tool is one
that clones partitions, and does not handle your filessystem in order to resize
logical partitions, for example.

For that reason, Webdar is transparent to partitions, it is also
mostly transparent to filesystems. So you can take the opportunity to
restore your system into a different filesystem without fear or risk.

Webdar is able to handle your backups locally on a set of CD, DVD,
usb key, or tapes (thanks to the underlying libdar library), but it can
also directly fetch your backups over the network from a remote FTP repository.

Some will say that FTP is not a secure protocol, and they would be right, so
Webdar can today exploit encrypted archives (AES, twofish, blowfish, camellia,
etc.). Tomorrow, more protocols will be added like FTP over SSL, etc.
But now, why using the network? First, because network storage becomes cheeper
and cheeper. Second because it does not implies having a person (you) in front of
the computer replacing floppy, CD, DVD, tapes hours after hours... Third and last
because if you've faced to a disaster (fire, flooding, etc.), there is much
chances that your floppy, CD, DVD, tapes, usb keys got lost too, beside your
lost computer.

Last, but not least, Webdar is not only a restoration tool, that can be
driven remotely or locally, on a headed or headless system to fetch backup
locally or from over the network, to restore a whole system into a larger or
different partitions, having same or different filesystems: yes, Webdar is also
a backup tool! :-)

Why using Webdar for backup too? Because, its the best way to become familiar
with the tool you could have to use when you would have lost everything.
But would you have lost everything using Webdar? I guess no, just remains
for you to make your backups and, as always in that area, to *test* the overall
restoration process yourself. Testing means restoring on another system from scratch,
may it be a real or temporary virtual machine. If you succeed this test step,
you may be confident in your ability to recover the data you backup using Webdar.

P.S.: this speech sounds quite commercial, but it was just for fun presenting
Webdar that way ;-) No, webdar is not commercial and will never become, it is
licensed under GPLv3: this is free software.
